Ryan Topps
Professor Brent Horine
EECE 414
15 September 2015
The Issue of Ad-Blocking
Ad-Blocking is creating controversy once again with Apple providing built in support for developing ad-blocking plug-ins for IOS 9. The reason why this is becoming a controversy is because the internet only remains free by advertising. The fear arising is that with ad-blocking growing in popularity the internet will become unpopular to advertise on and advertisers will leave creating a gap of how websites get funding. This would result in many problems as either websites will start charging for their services or just simply disappear.
I believe this issue started with the creation of pop-up ads which caused earlier web-users much annoyance. This resulted in the creation of pop-up blockers which was one of the first instances of ad-blocking. Pop-up blocking then got so popular it comes as a default feature on most web browsers. That resulted in many advertisers moving away from pop-up ads and towards banner ads which many users did not mind since they were more passive. Advertisers once again got creative and decided on video ads that are required before content is viewable which resulted many users getting annoyed again and selecting to use ad-blocking software.
The main issue in my opinion is that advertisers get too intrusive in their advertising methods which in turn encourages user to block their ads. The passive ads just happen to be caught in the cross-fire of the battle between intrusion and convenience. A possible solution is having regulation on advertising which ads specifically declare themselves and what type of ads they are. Users will then select what type of advertising they can see, and will always be forced to see basic static ads in order to keep internet going. A current solution to problem is that many websites make users disable ad-blocking on their website in order view content, which works well if the user wants to use their content.
Overall, this issue will still continue well into the future. I have provided my views and some possible solutions which may help, but there is much work still to be done. There is always the possibilities of regulation of internet advertising by the government in the future. Hopefully one day there will be a solution which both the consumer and advertiser can agree upon.
